Alchem-Link v0.2.0 — A Real Developer Tool Now


The first version of Alchem-Link was a CLI that printed JSON. Useful for scripting. Not useful for understanding. v0.2.0 fixes that.

One command launches a full terminal dashboard. No config. No flags. No documentation tab-switching.


What Alchem-Link Is

Alchemy and Chainlink are two of the most important infrastructure layers in Web3. Alchemy handles the RPC side — node access, WebSocket subscriptions, transaction monitoring, enhanced APIs for token and NFT intelligence. Chainlink handles the oracle side — price feeds, verifiable randomness, automation, and CCIP for cross-chain messaging.

Most developers use them in isolation. Alchem-Link maps the integration layer between them. Where they complement each other. How to wire them together. What the concrete workflows look like end to end.

That is the whole point of the package. Not a wrapper. Not an SDK. A reference layer for builders who want to understand how these systems fit together and ship faster because of it.


The Dashboard

Run alchem-link-ui from any terminal.

Five panels in the sidebar. Navigate with arrow keys or j/k.

Blueprint shows the full integration architecture across both systems. Structured cards with labelled sections. The big picture in one view.

Alchemy breaks down the core capabilities — high-throughput RPC, real-time WebSocket event subscriptions, Enhanced APIs for transaction and token intelligence, debug and trace endpoints. Each one explained in plain language, not marketing copy.

Chainlink covers price feeds, VRF for verifiable randomness, condition-based automation, and CCIP for secure cross-chain token and message transfers. What each primitive does and why it matters for hybrid smart contract development.

Integration Map shows four domains where the two systems connect: data ingestion, execution, monitoring, and cross-chain. Each domain shows what Alchemy handles and what Chainlink handles, side by side. This is the panel most developers will spend the most time in.

Recipes contains four developer workflows with full step-by-step checklists. Oracle-backed automation. Real-time data pipeline. Secure bridge experiment. CCIP cross-chain transfer. Navigate into any recipe to see the complete breakdown. Press Escape to return to the list.

Everything is rendered as formatted cards. No raw JSON anywhere in the UI.


Standalone Executable

The dashboard builds into a single exe via PyInstaller. No Python required on the target machine.

pip install pyinstaller
pyinstaller alchem-link-ui.spec

Output lands at dist/alchem-link-ui.exe. Drop it anywhere and run it. Works on any Windows machine.


Install

pip install alchem-link

Python 3.10 or later. Works on Windows, macOS, and Linux. The TUI needs a terminal with 256-colour support — Windows Terminal, iTerm2, or any modern Linux terminal all qualify.

The CLI entry point is unchanged. alchem-link blueprint, alchem-link recipes, alchem-link list — all still work exactly as before. The UI is additive.


Version

alchem-link 0.2.0

PyPI: pypi.org/project/alchem-link
GitHub: github.com/Meta-Oracle/Scematica
